Types of DATABASES:

1). RDBMS: 
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System.

📌 In Brief:
RDBMS is a type of database management system that stores data in tables (also called relations) consisting of rows and columns. Each table has a unique name, and data can be easily related across tables using keys (like primary keys and foreign keys).

🔑 Key Features of RDBMS:
Structured Data: Data is stored in tabular form.

SQL Support: Uses Structured Query Language (SQL) for querying and managing data.

Data Integrity: Maintains accuracy and consistency using constraints.

Relationships: Tables can be linked using keys.

Normalization: Reduces data redundancy and ensures data integrity.

🧱 Examples of RDBMS:
MySQL

PostgreSQL

Oracle Database

Microsoft SQL Server

SQLite

✅ Example Table:
Students Table

ID	Name	Age
1	Aman	20
2	Neha	21


2). NoSQL 
NoSQL stands for "Not Only SQL" — it's a type of database that provides a way to store and retrieve data that is not stored in relational tables.

📌 In Brief:
NoSQL databases are designed to handle large volumes of unstructured, semi-structured, or structured data. They are schema-less, meaning they don’t require a fixed table structure like in RDBMS. They are often used in big data, real-time web apps, and distributed systems.

🔑 Key Features of NoSQL:
Flexible schema: Can store different types of data without a fixed structure.

Scalable: Easily handles large amounts of data across many servers (horizontal scaling).

Fast: Optimized for quick read/write operations.

Supports various data models: Document, Key-Value, Column, and Graph.

🧱 Types of NoSQL Databases:
Document-based (e.g., MongoDB)

Key-Value (e.g., Redis)

Column-family (e.g., Apache Cassandra)

Graph-based (e.g., Neo4j)

✅ Example (MongoDB Document):
json
Copy
Edit
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "Aman",
  "age": 20,
  "courses": ["Math", "Science"]
}



3). In - memory database.
4). Cloud Database.


Q. what is Data ?
Q. What is File System ?
Q. What is Data Modelling ?
Q. ERD Symbols ?
